README.md update (#39)
signalfx/signalfx-python-tracing: README.md

# SignalFx Tracing Library for Python

The SignalFx Tracing Library for Python automatically instruments your
Python 2.7 or 3.4+ application to capture and report distributed traces to

> SignalFx with a single function. The library configures an OpenTracing-compatible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SignalFx with a single function. The library does so by configuring an OpenTracing-compatible
tracer you can use to embed...
```

> tracer to capture and export trace spans.

Reviewer: maybe change the end to something like "tracer that you can use for additional custom instrumentation to embed in the automatically generated traces."

> tracer to capture and export trace spans. You can use the tracer to imbed custom

Reviewer: "embed" is more common in software

The SignalFx-Tracing Library for Python works by detecting your libraries and
frameworks and configuring available instrumentors for distributed tracing via
the Python [OpenTracing API 2.0](https://pypi.org/project/opentracing/2.0.0/).
By default, its footprint is small and doesn't declare any instrumentors as

> dependencies. It assumes you install 2.0-compatible instrumentors.

Reviewer: Could be good to merge this and the following paragraph, and strip out "It assumes..." and replace "Because adopting.." with "It also provides a helpful bootstrap utility..." ->

```
By default, its footprint is small and doesn't declare any instrumentors as
dependencies.  It also provides a helpful bootstrap utility to ..."
```

dependencies.

The library provides a helpful [bootstrap utility](./scripts/README.md) to
install each applicable instrumentor along with a compatible tracer. The
bootstrap utility selectively installs custom instrumentors listed in the

> [instrumentor requirements file](./requirements-inst.txt). The bootstrap

Reviewer: installing the jaeger fork isn't creating the tracer.  that's done by `sfx-py-trace` and `create_tracer()`

utility creates a tracer with a modified

> [Jaeger Client](https://github.com/signalfx/jaeger-client-python)ready for

Reviewer: missing space

> [Jaeger Client](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-python)ready

Reviewer: The bootstrap utility isn't necessary to install jaeger, but it does do it for you.  Maybe moving the modified jaeger client reference to the previous paragraph?  also I think you'd want to link to `github.com/signalfx/jaeger-client-python` since that's our fork.

# SignalFx Tracing Library for Python

The SignalFx Tracing Library for Python automatically instruments your
Python 2.7 or 3.4+ application to capture and report distributed traces to
SignalFx with a single function. The library does so by configuring an OpenTracing-compatible

> tracer you can use to embed...

Reviewer: don't believe the placeholder was integrated correctly.  joining with `to embed custom instrumentation in the automatically generated traces.` was the intention.

tracer to capture and export trace spans. You can use the tracer to embed custom
instrumentation in the automatically generated traces.

The SignalFx-Tracing Library for Python works by detecting your libraries and
frameworks and configuring available instrumentors for distributed tracing via
the Python [OpenTracing API 2.0](https://pypi.org/project/opentracing/2.0.0/).
By default, its footprint is small and doesn't declare any instrumentors as
dependencies.

The library provides helpful [utilities](./scripts/README.md) to
install each applicable instrumentor along with a compatible tracer. The
bootstrap utility selectively installs custom instrumentors listed in the
[instrumentor requirements file](./requirements-inst.txt). The application
runner creates a tracer with a modified 
[Jaeger Client](https://github.com/signalfx/jaeger-client-python) ready for

> reporting to SignalFx.

Reviewer: `and auto-instruments your app without any required code changes.`

`sfx-py-trace` can't enable auto-instrumentation of Django projects by itself
because you have to add the `signalfx_tracing` instrumentor in the project settings'
installed applications. Once you specify the application, use `sfx-py-trace` as
described in the 
[Django instrumentation documentation](./signalfx_tracing/libraries/django_/README.md).

`sfx-py-trace` creates a Jaeger tracer instance using the access token specified
with the environment variable or argument to report your spans to SignalFx. It
then calls `auto_instrument()` before running your target application file in
its own module namespace. Due to potential deadlocks in importing forking code,
you can't initialize the standard Jaeger tracer as a side effect of an import
statement. For more information, see
[Python threading doc](https://docs.python.org/2/library/threading.html#importing-in-threaded-code) 
and [known Jaeger issue](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-python/issues/60#issuecomment-318909730).
Because of this issue, and for general lack of HTTP reporting support, use the
modified [Jaeger tracer](#Tracer) that provides deferred thread creation to
avoid this constraint.

> `sfx-py-trace` attempts to instrument all available libraries there are

Reviewer: nit `for which`

Author: we don't need the formality.

> corresponding instrumentations installed on your system for. If want to prevent

Reviewer: `If you want to`

instrument your code. You can convert `instrument()` and `auto_instrument()` to
no-ops by setting the `SIGNALFX_TRACING_ENABLED` environment variable to `False`
or `0`. This can be helpful when you're developing your application locally or
deploying in a test environment.
   1. Automatically instrument your code:
      ```python
      from signalfx_tracing import auto_instrument, create_tracer
      tracer = create_tracer()
      auto_instrument(tracer)
      ```
   2. Manually instrument your code:
      ```python
      from signalfx_tracing import create_tracer, instrument

      tracer = create_tracer()
      instrument(tracer, flask=True)
      # or
      instrument(flask=True)  # uses the global Tracer from opentracing.tracer by default
      
      import flask

      traced_app = flask.Flask('MyTracedApplication')
      
      @traced_app.route('/hello_world')
      def traced_route():
        # Obtain active span created by traced middleware
        span = tracer.scope_manager.active.span
        span.set_tag('Hello', 'World')
        span.log_kv({'event': 'initiated'})
        return 'Hello!'  # Span is automatically finished after request handler

>       untraced_app = flask.Flask('MyUntracedApplication')

Reviewer: When you removed the uninstrument call this loses meaning so it and its route can be removed.

      @untraced_app.route('/untraced_hello_world')
      def untraced_route():
        return 'Goodbye!'
      ```
1. Automatically create spans for custom application logic with a trace decorator:
    ```python
 	  from signalfx_tracing import trace
	  import opentracing

	  from my_app import annotate, compute, report

>   	@trace

Reviewer: formatting issue

	  def my_function(arg):  # The default span operation name is the name of the function
      	# span will automatically trace duration of my_function() without any
        # modifications necessary
    	  annotated = annotate(arg)
    	  return MyBusinessLogic().my_other_function(annotated)

  	class MyBusinessLogic:

>       	@classmethod  # You have to declare @trace after @classmethod and @staticmethod

Reviewer: methods should be indented within the class

instrument your code. You can convert `instrument()` and `auto_instrument()` to
no-ops by setting the `SIGNALFX_TRACING_ENABLED` environment variable to `False`
or `0`. This can be helpful when you're developing your application locally or
deploying in a test environment.
   1. Automatically instrument your code:
      ```python
      from signalfx_tracing import auto_instrument, create_tracer
      tracer = create_tracer()
      auto_instrument(tracer)
      ```
   2. Manually instrument your code:
      ```python
      from signalfx_tracing import create_tracer, instrument, uninstrument

      tracer = create_tracer()
      instrument(tracer, flask=True)
      # or
      instrument(flask=True)  # uses the global Tracer from opentracing.tracer by default
      
      import flask

      traced_app = flask.Flask('MyTracedApplication')
      
      @traced_app.route('/hello_world')
      def traced_route():
        # Obtain active span created by traced middleware
        span = tracer.scope_manager.active.span
        span.set_tag('Hello', 'World')
        span.log_kv({'event': 'initiated'})
        return 'Hello!'  # Span is automatically finished after request handler

>       uninstrument('flask')  # prevent future registrations

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should have this in the example. May be have a different section for this if you think it's important. I think this example should stick to the bare minimum that's required to manually setup auto-instrumentation.

Reviewer 2: My concern is that people generally copy paste snippets like these and I think a lot of people might end up pasting the uninstrument line somewhere unintentionally. At least I'd suggest to create a small section below and show uninstrument there.

Reviewer: I second this.  The initial version was a snippet to overview the functionality and interface of the library and not to present ordered instructions.

| `['sampler']['param']` | `SIGNALFX_SAMPLER_PARAM` | `1` |
| `propagation` | `SIGNALFX_PROPAGATION` | `'b3'` |

## Automatically instrument a Python application

Install the tracing library, use the `sfx-py-trace-bootstrap` utility to
configure instrumentation and create a tracer, and automatically instrument your
application with the `sfx-py-trace` utility. Install instrumentation and the
Jaeger tracer with the [bootstrap utility](./scripts/README.md#sfx-py-trace-bootstrap) and
automatically instrument your application with the [trace utility](./scripts/README.md#sfx-py-trace).

> 1. Set the service name, endpoint URL, and access token:

Reviewer: setting the env vars is only necessary for step 4.

Author: Should we make this the new step 3 then? Or is it okay how it is now?

Reviewer: It would be part of step 4 and is optional overall depending on the use case.

Author: keeping as the first step if it doesn't break the task.

    ```bash
    # Specify a name for the service in SignalFx.
    $ export SIGNALFX_SERVICE_NAME="your_service"
    # Set the endpoint URL for the Smart Agent, OpenTelemetry Collector, or ingest endpoint.
    $ export SIGNALFX_ENDPOINT_URL="http://localhost:9080/v1/trace"

>     # Provide the access token for your SignalFx organization.

Reviewer: "if you are reporting directly to SignalFx without a Smart Agent or Collector"

Author: Is it also if you're not sending to localhost?

Reviewer: the hostname is an env detail, but the type of collector is what matters

Because of this issue, and for general lack of HTTP reporting support, use the
modified [Jaeger tracer](#Tracer) that provides deferred thread creation to
avoid this constraint.

`sfx-py-trace` attempts to instrument all available libraries there are
corresponding instrumentations installed on your system for. If want to prevent
the tracing of particular libraries at run time, set the
`SIGNALFX_<LIBRARY_NAME>_ENABLED=False` environment variable when launching the
`sfx-py-trace` process. For example, to prevent auto-instrumentation of Tornado,
you could run:

```sh
  $ SIGNALFX_TORNADO_ENABLED=False sfx-py-trace my_application.py
```

The supported value of each library name is the uppercase form of the
corresponding `instrument()` [keyword argument](#Supported-Frameworks-and-Libraries).

## Manually instrument a Python application

Manually configure each applicable instrumentor, tracer, and instrument your
application. Manually instrumenting an application is helpful when you want to
monitor more than the auto-instrumentation process configures or you want to
add custom instrumentation tags.

> 1. Uninstall any previous instrumentor versions.

Reviewer: The bootstrap will do this for you so I wouldn't declare this as step one.

Author: What if you don't use the bootstrap? I can call that out specifically. "If you aren't using the bootstrap utility, uninstall any previous instrumentor versions."

      ```
7. Automatically create spans for custom application logic with a trace decorator:
    ```python
 	  from signalfx_tracing import trace
	  import opentracing

	  from my_app import annotate, compute, report

  	@trace
	  def my_function(arg):  # The default span operation name is the name of the function
      	# span will automatically trace duration of my_function() without any
        # modifications necessary
    	  annotated = annotate(arg)
    	  return MyBusinessLogic().my_other_function(annotated)

  	class MyBusinessLogic:

      	@classmethod  # You have to declare @trace after @classmethod and @staticmethod
      	@trace('MyOperation')  # Specify span operation name
    	  def my_other_function(cls, arg):
 	         # Using OpenTracing API, it's possible to modify current spans.
    	      # This active span is 'MyOperation', the current traced function and child of 'my_function'.
        	  span = opentracing.tracer.active_span
        	  span.set_tag('MyAnnotation', arg)
        	  value = cls.my_additional_function(arg)
        	  return report(value)

    	  @staticmethod
    	  @trace('MyOtherOperation',  # Specify span operation name and tags

>           	   dict(tag_name='tag_value',

Reviewer: Can you please rebase/update to include the recent change to this example?

> | `['sampler']['param']` | `SIGNALFX_SAMPLER_PARAM` | `1` |

Reviewer: Would you mind taking this opportunity to remove the sampler options and propagation?  They shouldn't be changed at this point.

| `propagation` | `SIGNALFX_PROPAGATION` | `'b3'` |

## Automatically instrument a Python application

> Install the tracing library, use the `sfx-py-trace-bootstrap` utility to

Reviewer: Why are you replacing explanations of the library's functionality with orders and commands of (potential) users?  It's unclear to me what benefit it provides and decreases the readability of them overall imo.

Author: it should be more convenient for users to follow explicit tasks.

configure instrumentation and create a tracer, and automatically instrument your
application with the `sfx-py-trace` utility. Install instrumentation and the
Jaeger tracer with the [bootstrap utility](./scripts/README.md#sfx-py-trace-bootstrap) and

> automatically instrument your application with the [trace utility](./scripts/README.md#sfx-py-trace).

Reviewer: "application runner" is more accurate/descriptive imo

1. Set the service name, endpoint URL, and access token:
    ```bash
    # Specify a name for the service in SignalFx.
    $ export SIGNALFX_SERVICE_NAME="your_service"
    # Set the endpoint URL for the Smart Agent, OpenTelemetry Collector, or ingest endpoint.
    $ export SIGNALFX_ENDPOINT_URL="http://localhost:9080/v1/trace"
    # If you're reporting directly to SignalFx without a Smart Agent or Collector, provide the access token for your SignalFx organization.
    $ export SIGNALFX_ACCESS_TOKEN="your_access_token"
    ```
2. Install the tracing library:
    ```bash
    $ pip install signalfx-tracing
    ```
3. Run the bootstrap utility:
    ```bash
    $ sfx-py-trace-bootstrap
    ```
4. Run the trace utility:
    ```bash
    $ sfx-py-trace your_application.py --app_arg_one --app_arg_two
    ```

> `sfx-py-trace` can't enable auto-instrumentation of Django projects by itself

Reviewer: Since this is no longer a warning, it may make more sense to add a notes column in the library table and say something like "requires `signalfx_tracing` in project's installed applications"?

Author: i think both would be best

because you have to add the `signalfx_tracing` instrumentor the project settings'
installed applications. Once you specify the application, use `sfx-py-trace` as
described in the 
[Django instrumentation documentation](./signalfx_tracing/libraries/django_/README.md).

`sfx-py-trace` creates a Jaeger tracer instance using the access token specified
with the environment variable or argument to report your spans to SignalFx. It
then calls `auto_instrument()` before running your target application file in

> its own module namespace. Due to potential deadlocks in importing forking code,

Reviewer: It's probably better to speak to the provided, modified jaeger tracer being a requirement near the beginning instead of us suggesting its usage here.

Reviewer: The bootstrap will uninstall any other jaeger version fwiw.

you can't initialize the standard Jaeger tracer as a side effect of an import
statement. For more information, see
[Python threading doc](https://docs.python.org/2/library/threading.html#importing-in-threaded-code) 
and [known Jaeger issue](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-python/issues/60#issuecomment-318909730).
Because of this issue, and for general lack of HTTP reporting support, use the
modified [Jaeger tracer](#Tracer) that provides deferred thread creation to
avoid this constraint.

`sfx-py-trace` attempts to instrument all available libraries there are
corresponding instrumentations installed on your system for. If want to prevent
the tracing of particular libraries at run time, set the
`SIGNALFX_<LIBRARY_NAME>_ENABLED=False` environment variable when launching the
`sfx-py-trace` process. For example, to prevent auto-instrumentation of Tornado,
you could run:

```sh
  $ SIGNALFX_TORNADO_ENABLED=False sfx-py-trace my_application.py
```

The supported value of each library name is the uppercase form of the
corresponding `instrument()` [keyword argument](#Supported-Frameworks-and-Libraries).

> ## Manually instrument a Python application

Reviewer: Manual instrumentation doesn't require our libraries because they confirm to the OT api.  As long as users use the global tracer there's no dependency on us.  There's no strong reason imo to repeat all the installation tasks.

Author: Can't a user who's manually instrumenting use the bootstrap utility? Would it be better if #2 said to install the library if you want to use the bootstrap utility?

Reviewer: None of the provided examples here are for manual instrumentation.  They are for manual invocations of our instrumentor and tracer creator, (create_tracer(), instrument(), or auto_instrument()) which is not the same thing.  Manual instrumentation is manually creating spans in user apps using the OT global tracer and api.

Reviewer: Well, the trace decorator is pretty analogous to manual instrumentation so maybe just using an example of that is necessary for this section.

Author: seems like a heading rename is in order then. "Manually configure the tracing library components" maybe?
